Zane Lackey
Zane Lackey is the Founder/CSO at Signal Sciences and serves on the Advisory Board of the Internet Bug Bounty Program.
 Prior to Signal Sciences, Zane was the Director of Security Engineering at Etsy and a Senior Security Consultant at iSEC Partners.

Abir Ghattas
Abir works with Human Rights Watch as an Information Security Associate Director
Abir works with Human Rights Watch as their Associate Director for Information Security. Prior to that, she was the communications and outreach director for Raseef22 a PAN Arab independent media platform, and also the outreach director for Majal, a network of digital platforms centered on securing freedom of expression and access to information. Abir’s work and research focus on women&#x27;s rights, digital rights, and the intersection of gender and tech. Abir sits on Article19&#x27;s international board, OTF&#x27;s advisory council, and the grant advisory board of AccessNow. She also founded HammamRadio, A feminist participatory radio, launched from Berlin where she is based.

Aaron Gibson
As an Emerging Technology Fellow and developer at the Tor Project, Aaron worked on renovating the Bandwidth Authority mechanism to decrease the amount of time spent scanning the Tor Network and to ensure that accurate measurements are used for feedback..
As an Emerging Technology Fellow and developer at the Tor Project, Aaron worked on renovating the Bandwidth Authority mechanism to decrease the amount of time spent scanning the Tor Network and to ensure that accurate measurements are used for feedback.

Abbas Razaghpanah
As a Seasonal Information Controls Fellow, Abbas Razaghpanah collaborated with the Citizen Lab to continue development of ICLab, a collaborative effort between Stony Brook University, Citizen Lab, and Princeton University.
 Internet censorship during the 2015 conflict in Yemen.

Adam Lynn
Programmatic Advisor
Adam joined OTF in 2012 as the inaugural program manager prior to serving as the Organization&#x27;s Research Director. In his current role as Programmatic Advisor, Adam provides guidance and other forms of assistance to OTF’s program team.

Adnan Bashir
Adnan worked with Calipr research group at University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
His project focused on investigating middleboxes in Pakistan to see how they impact internet freedom in Pakistan. Adnan is also pursuing his Ph.D from University of New Mexico with a prime focus on internet censorship.

Ain Ghazal
Ain Ghazal is an Information Controls Fellow working with the Open Observatory of Network Interference (OONI) to study Censorship Resistance Systems in global VPN infrastructure.
Global usage for VPN technologies shows a sustained demand in the last few years, but state-level restrictions and interference with VPN traﬀic shows a growing trend too. By improving on OONI&#x27;s measurements for Tor’s pluggable transports and VPN service disruption, Ain will build upon a subset of OONI data to map the state of VPN interference. This project will study concrete censor behavior in selected countries, in order to classify and enumerate possible circumvention strategies for a given context. Ain&#x27;s research will also explore how to reduce the cost, for Censorship Resistance Systems, to incorporate useful knowledge about the censor’s capabilities in a way that can contribute to slowing down the advances of the censors over their sphere of influence.

Alexandra Dirksen
Alexandra Dirksen is an ICFP fellow in collaboration with Censored Planet. She is a PhD student at the Institute of Application Security (TU Braunschweig, Germany) and investigates the presence of covert state-level attackers on the Web PKI.
, these attacks have been unsuccessful, as far as is known. During her fellowship, Alexandra plans to examine the global state of web PKI, specifically certificates deployed worldwide. She is working on a cross-regional collection of certificates, the close examination of which could reveal anomalies in the Web PKI. Such anomalies may also contain circumstantial evidence of further, previously unknown HTTPS interception attempts, which should be investigated further.

Alexei Abrahams
As a senior information controls fellow, Alexei worked with Citizen Lab to investigate information manipulation on social media in the Arabian Gulf.
 of Alexei&#x27;s research can be found on the OTF blog.

Alix Dunn
Alix is a specialist in organisational development and strategy, and technology for social change.
She advises partners on how to use data and technology effectively, responsibly and impactfully. She is a leading trainer and advisor in data and technology for partners ranging from activists to international and local CSOs to foundations. Alix is the Executive Director and a co-founder of The Engine Room and sits on the board of Open Data Kosovo, and the Advisory Board for Circle of 6. She was formerly on the Technology Advisory Council of Amnesty International and the board of directors for HURIDOCs. She holds an M.A. in Media Studies from University of Oslo and a B.A. from Colorado College.

Ambassador Karen Kornbluh
Chair of the Board
. Kornbluh has a bachelor’s degree from Bryn Mawr College and a Master of Public Policy degree from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.

Amira El-Sayed
Amira works at Luminate, sourcing the organisation&#x27;s Civic Empowerment grants and investments.
Amira works at Luminate, sourcing the organisation&#x27;s Civic Empowerment grants and investments to help ensure that everyone, especially those who are marginalised or underserved, can participate in governance, receive the services they need and hold those in power to account. Prior to that, Amira was the Director of Programs and Strategy at Reboot, working to advance civic participation and social action with a variety of philanthropic, government, and private sector partners. At Transparency International – Defence and Security, Amira first led the Africa Programme and later managed an initiative to develop global norms for responsible defence governance, as well as the Government Defence Anti-Corruption Index, TI’s flagship publication on defence and security.

Amir Rashidi
Digital Integrity Fellow
Amir Rashidi is an internet security and digital rights researcher. He has over 10 years of experience in digital security and rights in Iran. Rashidi is an expert on Iranian Internet censorship, cyber-attacks, and security trends. He has conducted tens of digital security audits, trainings, and rapid response actions for Iranian human rights defenders and organizations. He is in a unique position to assess the security risks and needs of Iranian organizations, especially those who are in contact with at-risk people, such as activists and journalists. Rashidi worked as the internet security and digital rights researcher at the Center for Human Rights in Iran, where he conducts in-depth research, data collection and analysis on internet security and access in Iran, internet policy and infrastructure, and the tools and methods of state-sponsored censorship and hacking.

Andrew McLaughlin
Andrew McLaughlin is a partner at betaworks, a technology and media start-up studio based in New York City.
 He also serves as CEO of Digg and Instapaper. In 2011, Andrew served as executive director of Civic Commons, and a Lecturer at Stanford Law School, teaching “Freedom of Speech in a Digitally Interconnected World”. From 2009-2011, Andrew McLaughlin served a member of President Obama’s White House staff as Deputy Chief Technology Officer of the United States. From 2004-2009, Andrew was Director of Global Public Policy at Google. From 1999-2003, Andrew was Vice President and Chief Policy Officer of ICANN, the Internet’s technical coordinating body.

Anthony Briand
Anthony Briand is a Rapid Response Senior Fellow working at Virtual Road to provide rapid response services to independent media and grassroots organizations that work in the fields of democracy, human rights and freedom of expression.
 His work includes providing support in the case of threats such as website defacements, DDoS attacks, malware found on websites, internet blocking, hacked email accounts among others. As a fellow, Anthony analyzes existing attacks to help improve the ability of VirtualRoad.org to defend against similar attacks in the future.

Anthony D. Joseph
Anthony D. Joseph is Director of Intel Research Berkeley, and a Chancellor’s Associate Professor in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at UC Berkeley.
Joseph holds a Ph.D. and S.M. in Computer Science from MIT and a B.S. in EECS from MIT. His research includes adaptive techniques for: cloud computing, distributed network monitoring and triggering, network and computer security, and security defenses for machine learning-based decision systems. His principal field of interest is systems and networking: cybersecurity, datacenter architectures, mobile systems and networking, and overlay networks.

Antonio Espinoza
As a Senior OTF Information Controls Fellow, Antonio worked with the University of New Mexico to perform the first analysis of the encryption utilized by LINE, a popular messaging app in Asia.
 revealed a number of vulnerabilities and was presented at the 7th USENIX Workshop Free and Open Communications on the Internet (FOCI).

Arthur Gwagwa
As a senior fellow, Arthur documented internet-based information control systems, policies and practices in Southern and East Africa, including Zimbabwe, Zambia, Swaziland, and Ethiopia, their implications for free flow of information and proposals for policy alternatives based on best practices where appropriate..
 internet-based information control systems, policies and practices in Southern and East Africa, including Zimbabwe, Zambia, Swaziland, and Ethiopia, their implications for free flow of information and proposals for policy alternatives based on best practices where appropriate.

Arthur  Gwagwa
Former Advisory Council
 for more information.

Arzu Geybullayeva
Arzu worked with the Berkman Klein Center at Harvard University to advance understanding of information controls in Azerbaijan.
”

Ashley Lulling
Program Specialist
Prior to joining OTF, Ashley worked in international education, managing a portfolio of cultural-exchange programs.

Atnafu Brhane
Digital Integrity Fellow
Atnafu Brhane is a co-founder of Zone9, a collective of human rights defenders and bloggers. He was a Digital Integrity Fellow at Open Technology Fund.

Azeenarh Mohammed
Azeenarh is a lawyer and grassroot activist who works as a holistic security trainer with at-risk communities in sub-saharan Africa.
 Her focus is on individual human rights defenders and the organizations that work to promote equality and acceptance. For her fellowship, Azeenarh will be working to secure the entire LGBTI network in Nigeria, create organizational security policies and secure communication channels between funders and grassroots organizations. One of her primary goals is to provide responsible data policies that can be replicated among other minority groups along the region.

Babatunde Okunoye
As an Information Controls Fellow, Babatunde worked with the Tor Project to investigate the use of information controls circumvention tools in four African countries: Nigeria, Cameroon, Ethiopia and Zimbabwe.
. Babatunde is Research Officer at Paradigm Initiative, where he leads the production of all research output which feeds into the advocacy work of the organization in digital rights and inclusion in Africa.

Beau Kujath
Beau Kujath is an Information Controls fellow working with the Citizen Lab and SocialTIC, a PhD candidate at Arizona State University, and member of BreakpointingBad.
Many service providers or telcos in Central America require “bloatware” applications to be installed on end-user devices for the network to be accessed. With the help of information security leaders in the region, a short list of high-impact applications have been identified that will be examined for security threats and potential privacy issues for the average user that is required to have one on their device. Bloatware applications are serious threats to the security of a device because they tend to have elevated permissions and typically cannot be removed by the user without gaining root access. During the fellowship, Beau will formulate a set of threat classes that are most serious in bloatware applications, produce an organized list of steps that a user in the information security field would be able to follow to investigate any similar bloatware app, and translate the findings for the target region.

Bekah Overdorf
As an Information Controls Fellow, Bekah worked with online social networking data in Central Asia to identify fake accounts and monitor and assess their activities as well as their effect on the overall network.
 of the project.

Bendert Zevenbergen
As a Senior Information Controls Fellow, Ben Zevenbergen was hosted by the Oxford Internet Institute to cultivate greater discussion on the ethical, legal and policy issues of networked systems research.
 guidelines resulting from this work.

Ben Jones
As a Senior Information Controls Fellow, Ben Jones worked with Princeton on their Censored Planet project with the aim of identifying safe means of measuring Internet censorship at scale.
 around ethical censorship measurements. Despite these accomplishments, Ben ended his fellowship early after being accepted by Google as a summer fellow.

Ben Laurie
Ben Laurie is a software engineer and cryptoplumber.
 He helped set up the Apache Software Foundation and the OpenSSL project (the most widely used crypto library in the world). He is a Visiting Fellow at the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory, where he is working on capability-based systems. He is also a member of Google’s Security Team, where he is currently working on Certificate Transparency. He has reluctantly come to the conclusion that usability is the single biggest security problem we face today.

Ben Mixon-Baca
Ben Mixon-Baca is an ICFP fellow with the Censored Planet team at the University of Michigan, a PhD candidate at Arizona State University, and co-founder of BreakpointingBad.
 at the Munk School of Global Affairs at the University of Toronto, Ben developed a plugin for existing detection software and also trained multiple organizations on how to use the plugin (and numerous other tools) to quickly detect attacks. These tools (and the knowledge of how to use them) will greatly increase these organizations’ ability to respond quickly and effectively to threats. Ben’s work will further serve as a template for the rising number of organizations globally subject to similar attacks.

Ben Scott
Vice Chair of the Board
Previously, Ben was Policy Adviser for Innovation at the US Department of State, where he helped steward the 21st Century Statecraft agenda, with a focus on technology policy, social media, and development. Before this, Ben led the Washington office of Free Press, a public interest organization expanding affordable access to an open internet and fostering more public service journalism.  

Berhan Taye
Former Advisory Council
 for more information.

Bernard Tyers
Bernard is a user centred designer focusing on user research, and interaction design.
 He works on open source software and digital public services where privacy, security, identity, accessibility, and inclusion are important. He&#x27;s lead international user research, and designed services for vulnerable user groups. He&#x27;s contributed to numerous open source software projects, most recently GNU Radio and various Nextcloud apps. Bernard is a founder of Open Source Design collective (https://opensourcedesign.net/), an organisation that advocates for UX design in open source software. His MSc. in Human Centred Design dissertation was on user mental models of the Off-The-Record encryption protocol. Before he came to the &quot;Light Side&quot; of technology, he was an engineer and systems administrator for 15+ years.﻿

Bill Marczak
As a Senior Information Controls Fellow, Bill Marczak collaborated with the Citizen Lab to document the proliferation of commercial spyware and its use by states around the world.
 (FOCI).

Bruce Schneier
Bruce Schneier is an internationally renowned security technologist, called a “security guru” by The Economist.
He is the author of 12 books – including his latest best-seller Liars and Outliers: Enabling the Trust Society Needs to Survive – as well as hundreds of articles and essays, and many more academic papers. His influential newsletter “Crypto-Gram,” and his blog “Schneier on Security,” are read by over 250,000 people. He has testified before Congress, is a frequent guest on television and radio, served on several government technical committees, and is regularly quoted in the press.

Bryan Nunez
Vice President of Technology
Bryan is an alumnus of the Interactive Telecommunications Program at New York University’s Tisch School of the Arts. He holds an undergraduate degree in anthropology from University of California, Berkeley.

Carrie Winfrey
Carrie is a Design Strategist and User Experience Designer whose work generates excitement.
She operates a freelance business, providing services in design strategy and user experience. Carrie is the co-founder of Okthanks, a design partnership located in Lubbock, Texas. She holds a MFA in Interaction Design from the School of Visual Arts in New York, and a Masters of Architecture from Kansas State University and has over several years of experience working on web and mobile products.

Chad Hurley
Chad joined the Broadcasting Board of Governors’ Office of Internet Freedom in 2018.
Chad has accumulated nearly 20 years experience utilizing his technology and security knowledge to advance the capabilities of pro-democracy journalists and human rights activists from around the globe. Prior to joining the with BBG, Chad was RFA’s Chief Security Officer and OTF’s Director of Technology. He joined RFA in 2006 and by 2009 became the Managing Engineer of Systems and Security. While at RFA, Chad was part of an internal RFA working group including RFA’s President, Chief Technology Officer, General Counsel, and Chief Financial Officer to define the founding principles under which OTF would begin to operate. Before RFA, he worked at Radio Free Europe / Radio Liberty in Prague, Czech Republic.

Cheekay Cinco
Advisory Council
 for more information.

Chinmayi S K
Chinmayi is an Indian researcher who has an interest in gender rights. She works in the intersections of gender and technology.
.

Chris Bronk
Christopher Bronk, Ph.D., is on the Information Controls Fellowship Program Advisory Council.
 He is an assistant professor of computer and information systems and associate director of the Center for Information Security Research and Education. He holds additional appointments in Rice University’s Department of Computer Science and the University of Toronto’s Munk School of Global Affairs. His research is focused in the area of cyber geopolitics with additional work in organizational innovation, knowledge management, and intelligence studies.

Chris Riley
M. Chris Riley is a Senior Policy Engineer at Mozilla, working to advance the open Internet and Web through public policy analysis and advocacy, strategic planning, coalition building, and community engagement.
 Prior to joining Mozilla, Chris worked as a program manager at the U.S. Department of State on Internet freedom, a policy counsel with the non-profit public interest organization Free Press, and an attorney-advisor at the Federal Communications Commission. Chris holds a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Johns Hopkins University and a J.D. from Yale Law School. He has published scholarship on topics including innovation policy, cognitive framing, graph drawing, and distributed load balancing.

Claudio Agosti
Claudio worked with Coding Rights to advance understanding around how advertising networks are being exploited by malicious actors.
 at the conclusion of the fellowship.

Collin Anderson
Collin Anderson is on the Information Controls Fellowship Program Advisory Council.
 He is a Washington D.C.-based computer scientist focused on Internet controls and restrictions on communications, including network ownership, disruption of access and regulatory regimes, with an emphasis on countries that limit the free flow of information.

Cory Doctorow
Cory Efram Doctorow is a Canadian-British blogger, journalist, and science fiction author who serves as co-editor of the weblog Boing Boing.
He is an activist in favor of liberalizing copyright laws and a proponent of the Creative Commons organization, using some of their licenses for his books. Some common themes of his work include digital rights management, file sharing, information privacy and security, along with post-scarcity economics.

Cristian Leon
Digital Integrity Fellow
He is part of the organization Asuntos del Sur,  in which he led several projects on digital security of activists at risk and democratic participation across several countries of Latin America, and has has been an active defender of privacy and freedom of speech.

Dan Blah
Dan co-founded OTF in 2012 and was the organization&#x27;s inaugural director until 2019.
Before his time at Al Jazeera, Dan was a senior technology fellow at New America Foundation in Washington, D.C. While there, he helped create and worked with the Open Technology Initiative and Media Policy Initiative to operationalize new “code-as-policy” technology projects with global communities of policymakers, journalists, and technologists. His focus was to create, educate, demystify, and evangelize open, distributed, and decentralized technologies that increased democratic participation, fought censorship, and disrupted authoritarianism globally.

Daniel Kahn Gillmor
Daniel Kahn Gillmor is a Senior Staff Technologist for ACLU’s Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project, focused on the way our technical infrastructure shapes society and impacts civil liberties.
As a free software developer and member of the Debian project, he contributes to fundamental tools that shape the possibilities of our information-rich environment. As a participant in the IETF he fosters the creation of new generations ofnetworking and cryptographic protocols designed and optimized for privacy and security. He is an anti-surveillance advocate for privacy, justice, free speech, and data sovereignty. Daniel is a graduate of Brown University’s computer science program.

Daniel Riofrio
As a senior OTF Information Controls Fellow, Daniel worked with the University of New Mexico to collaborate with Ecuadorian groups to study the characteristics of past DoS attacks and mitigate future attacks expected around the 2017 Ecuadorian electoral year.
 for the OTF blog.

Daniel Kahn Gillmor
Daniel Kahn Gillmor is a Senior Staff Technologist for ACLU’s Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project, focused on the way our technical infrastructure shapes society and impacts civil liberties.
As a free software developer and member of the Debian project, he contributes to fundamental tools that shape the possibilities of our information-rich environment. As a participant in the IETF he fosters the creation of new generations ofnetworking and cryptographic protocols designed and optimized for privacy and security. He is an anti-surveillance advocate for privacy, justice, free speech, and data sovereignty. Daniel is a graduate of Brown University’s computer science program.

Dan McDevitt
Dan joined the OTF team in December 2014.
As Communications Coordinator, Dan oversaw OTF&#x27;s external communications efforts, including OTF&#x27;s newsletter, blog, and social media. Dan holds a bachelor&#x27;s degree in communications from Loyola University Maryland and a master&#x27;s degree in international relations with a concentration in U.S. foreign policy and national security from American University&#x27;s School of International Service.

David Choi
As a Digital Integrity Fellow, Choi will assess and identify threats in journalism community in South Korea operating in high threat environments, as well as providing digital security assistances, consultations, trainings to let them mitigate threats with best-practices of internet freedom community.
Prior to the fellowship, he&#x27;s been also giving consultations and support to local human rights defender groups and activists, as well as spoke on his research about state-sponsored cyberattack and surveillance techniques, internet governance, privacy-by-design principle in various settings.

Denna Millet
Denna Millet joined RFA in October 2014 as a Program Manager with OTF.
 Before joining OTF, she worked on programs to support digital activists, citizen journalists and civil society actors in the Middle East and North Africa at the National Democratic Institute. She worked at NDI to build the capacity of digital activists and citizen journalists in the Arab world and Iran by facilitating trainings and connecting them with experts in digital security and privacy. Most recently, she supported NDI’s Egypt civic engagement program, which involved designing and implementing advocacy workshops and providing follow-on technical assistance to Egyptian civil society actors.

Dhyta Caturani
Fellow
 for more information.

Diego Bravo
As a seasonal Information Controls fellow, Diego worked with Citizen Lab over the summer to contribute to their security analysis of popular browsers.
 a tool to analyze an Android application to look for hardcoded encryption keys.

Di Luong
Product Manager


Donny Anderson
Associate General Counsel
Donny holds a Juris Doctor from Regent University School of Law and a Bachelor of Arts in Media and Communication from N.C. State University. He was admitted to practice law in the State of North Carolina in 2012.

Dr. Corinne Cath
Vice President of Research
Corinne has worked at the intersection of digital rights, internet freedom, and research for a decade, including at ARTICLE19, the US House of Representatives, the Internet of Humans Project at Edgeryders under the European Commission Next Generation Internet Initiative, and most recently Luminate Group. Corinne is trained as a cultural anthropologist and holds a PhD from the Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford.

Dr. Siân Brooke
Dr Siân Brooke (she/her) is a Researcher in the Department of Methodology (previously an LSE Fellow in Computational Social Science) and Research Associate at the University Oxford (Oxford Internet Institute).


Dyan Cortez
Program Specialist
 Dyan graduated from Fordham University with a BA in Anthropology and International Humanitarian Affairs.

Ellery Roberts Biddle
Editorial Director
Ellery Roberts Biddle is the editorial director of Ranking Digital Rights, where she works with the research and policy teams to build strong, compelling narratives about how technology companies&#x27; policies affect human rights. Prior to joining RDR, she was the advocacy director at Global Voices, where she worked with writers, activists, and technologists from around the world, telling stories about media freedom in the digital age, and the effects of technology on the lives and human rights of users around the world. She began her work in the digital rights field as a policy analyst with the Center for Democracy &amp; Technology, and has worked as a consultant with ARTICLE 19, The Engine Room, and Mozilla, among others. She is a graduate of the University of Chicago’s Harris School and was a fellow at Harvard&#x27;s Berkman Klein Center for Internet &amp; Society from 2014-2017. In addition to Global Voices, she has written for The New York Times, The Guardian, Slate, Quartz, and Americas Quarterly.

Emerging Technology Fellow
The Emerging Technology Fellow studied Internet censorship in China looking specifically at the technical capacity, limitations and policies of the Great Firewall of China and domain fronting accessibility challenges.
 extensions with built in domain fronting.

Emily Ratliff
.
Emily Ratliff is the CTO of Security Intelligence App Modernization at IBM. Emily has a long history devoted to open source security at IBM, AMD, Canonical and the Linux Foundation. Emily is especially interested in the transition from computer security as a feature to cybersecurity as a product and the implications that this transition has had on modern security and privacy functionality.

Enrico Calandro
As a Senior Information Controls Fellow, Enrico Calandro was hosted by Research ICT Africa to investigate African users awareness and experience of censorship, surveillance, and internet safety and security, in order to assess levels of trust and mistrust of the internet in three African countries: South Africa, Kenya and Nigeria.
 an African perspective on Internet governance.

Enrique Piraces
As a Seasonal Information Controls Fellow, Enrique Piraces was hosted by the Citizen Lab to perform the initial work to create a methodological framework and toolset for the collection, preservation, and sharing of information about the impact of technology on the privacy, safety and security of users with particular emphasis on human rights defenders and journalists.
 of the framework.

Esther Lim
Esther joined OTF in November 2014 as a Senior Program Manager.
 She is a lawyer by training, and served as a judicial clerk for the Alaska Supreme Court before OTF. She received her law degree from Harvard Law School, where she focused on various aspects of internet and technology law. Before law school, Esther worked for Google in their New York and Boston offices.

Esther Rodriguez
An an Information Controls Fellow, Esther assessed the security and privacy of a messaging application popular in several Asian countries.
 the underlying protocol. 

Fieke Jansen
Postdoc Researcher at the Data Justice Lab at Cardiff University
Fieke Jansen is a postdoc researcher at the Data Justice Lab at Cardiff University, where she is researching the relationship between datafication on labour in the Netherlands. In her PhD she looked at the institutional and societal implications of data-driven risk scoring and biometric recognition in Brussels, Belgium, the Netherlands, and the UK. Prior to starting her PhD Fieke worked for Hivos where she set up the Digital Defenders Partnership and at Tactical Tech where she lead the politics of data program.

Fiona Krakenbürger
Fiona joined the OTF team in January 2019.
Fiona has a background in Science and Technology Studies and she engages as an activist in various diversity and digital literacy initiatives.

Frerieke van Bree
Former Advisory Council
 for more information.

Gabrielle Lim
Gabrielle worked with Data &amp; Society to better conceptualize and map out the influence of disinformation and media manipulation in Malaysia, given recent efforts to limit press freedom and increase online information controls.


Geoffrey Alexander
As a senior Information controls fellow, Geoff is working with Citizen Lab at the University of Toronto to develop new methods and tools for investigating malware enabled espionage operations against targeted actors like journalists and civil society groups.
.

Grace Mutung&#x27;u
Grace worked with the Berkman Klein Center at Harvard University to perform an analysis and publication of a report on freedom online in the Uganda elections of 2016, monitor information controls applied by the Kenyan Government and the analysis of freedom online in the Kenyan elections of 2017.
.

Griffin Boyce
As a senior Information Controls fellow, Griffin collected and analyzed the internet censorship climate in former Soviet states leveraging the resources of the Berkman Klein Center at Harvard University,.
Censorship in this region in particular has received relatively scant attention from researchers and required testing to be performed from multiple endpoints in each of the selected countries. This data will help inform and ground future circumvention tool development by providing a robust dataset on censorship tactics across countries in this region. ​Griffin will publicly release the comprehensive results following the completion of the analysis.

Gunnar Hellekson
Gunnar Hellekson is the Chief Technology Strategist for Red Hat’s US Public Sector group, where he works with systems integrators and government agencies to encourage the use of open source software in government.
Prior to joining Red Hat, he worked as a developer, systems administrator, and IT director for a number of Internet businesses. He has also been a business and IT consultant to not-for-profit organizations in New York City. During that time, he spearheaded the reform of safety regulations for New York State’s electrical utilities through the Jodie Lane Project.

Gurshabad Grover
Gurshabad Grover is a technologist and legal researcher based in Bangalore, India.
, where his research and writing focused on censorship and surveillance in India, network security and privacy, and internet governance.

Gus Andrews
Gus Andrews is a Secure Usability Senior Fellow.
 Her fellowship project will work with particular projects to identify what their usability needs are and develop solutions specific to their stage of development. These might include design workshops, metrics analysis, expert review, or more user testing. She will also be conducting an overarching research project that might be useful to a number of tool developers, as well as to the broader community of security trainers, usable-security researchers, and digital literacy educators.

Gustaf Björksten
Gustaf has been gaining professional experience as a technologist and information security specialist since 1994, most recently in the area of surveillance technology.
He has worked in many different ICT environments and reckons he has seen just about everything. He has worked for dot com startups, led from the front during the internet boom, and endured the dot com bust. He has worked for small companies, rapidly growing companies, and very large corporations in the computer games, education, ISP, pharmaceutical, telecoms, and financial sectors. From 2001-2005 he founded and ran a hackerspace in Melbourne, Australia that housed over 150 computers of every size, description and platform. That hackerspace was also the base from which anti-net-censorship, no-net-tax, anti-war, and other activist campaigns were fought. He is glad to be given the opportunity to apply his technical experience to defend and extend digital human rights for all people.

Hammas Bin Tanveer
Hammas Bin Tanveer is a senior ICFP fellow in Information Control with the Censored Planet Lab at The University of Michigan, currently working at the intersection of next-generation technologies and internet censorship.
During the course of this fellowship, Hammas aims to understand the censorship mechanisms around Tor bridges over IPv6. His previous work has revealed that there are censorship implementation gaps between DNS over IPv4 and IPv6 resulting in lesser DNS censorship over IPv6. This fellowship aims to find similar censorship gaps between Tor bridges over IPv4 and IPv6 and explore a possibility of creating censorship resistant Tor bridges using the vast address space of IPv6.

Haroon Meer
Advisory Council
 for more information.

Hoàng Nguyên Phong
During Phong&#x27;s OTF fellowship, he worked with the Citizen Lab at University of Toronto to investigate the Great Firewall (GFW) of China with a focus on its DNS filtering behavior.
.

Ian Schuler
Ian is a leading innovator in the use of technology to advance democracy and human rights.
 He has assisted hundreds of civil society organizations, political movements, and government institutions in more than 40 countries to utilize technology for political reform and citizen empowerment. In 2013, he founded the New Rights Group (NRG), a network of technologists hacking for freedom. At NRG, Ian oversees the creation of tools, methodologies, and communities to advance rights and democracy in the digital age. At the start of 2013, Ian left his post managing Internet freedom programs for the State Department’s Bureau for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor. In that capacity, Ian oversaw a growth in the State Department’s Internet freedom portfolio from $20 million to over $100 million. Ian’s stewardship of Internet freedom funding helped to grow a community of organizations at the intersection of technology and human rights.

Igor Valentovich
As a Senior OTF fellow, Igor Valentovich worked with eQualit.ie to conduct a comparative research on the progress of information controls in the former Soviet Union space.
Igor holds a doctoral degree in Political Science from the University of Toronto. For his dissertation project, he conducted a comparative analysis of the media and political spheres of the largest ethnic minority groups in Europe. Igor accumulated comprehensive knowledge of the development of the Internet sphere and information controls in the former Soviet Union countries while working as a researcher at the Citizen Lab and regional program director at Psiphon Inc.

Ihsan Ayyub Qazi
As a Senior Information Controls Fellow, Ihsan Ayyub Qazi worked with International Computer Science Institute to significantly advance the development of an incentive-compatible tool for measuring internet censorship at scale.
”), bringing the concept from theory to practice. 

Information Controls Fellow
The fellow created a catalogue of user-created censorship circumvention techniques and identified methods that jointly maximize information accessibility and circumvention effectiveness


Iryna Chulivska
Iryna Chulivska is the co-founder and Head of the NGO Digital Security Lab Ukraine.
As a Digital Integrity Fellow, Iryna worked with the investigative journalism team at Bihus.info in Ukraine, helping them to enhance their digital security practices.

Jac  sm Kee
Jac sm Kee is a feminist activist working at the intersection of internet technologies, social justice and collective power.
Jac sm Kee is a feminist activist working at the intersection of internet technologies, social justice and collective power. Jac’s activism includes sexuality and gender justice, feminist movement building in a digital age, internet governance, open culture and epistemic justice. Jac is located within these movements at hyper-local, networked and global levels. Amongst stuff Jac is proud of being part of, is co-founding the Take Back the Tech! collaborative global campaign on ending online gender-based violence, and stewarding the collaborative development of the Feminist Principles of the Internet whilst at the Association for Progressive Communications. Jac is a founding member of the Malaysia Design Archive, co-director of Centre for Independent Journalism Malaysia, and is currently making into reality with co-dreamers - Numun Fund – the first dedicated fund on feminist tech rooted in the expansive mycelium network of the Larger World (aka Global South).

James Marchant
Program Manager
In his previous role, James collaborated closely with marginalized, at-risk communities and human rights defenders across the MENA region and Sub-Saharan Africa to map their digital security and media development needs. He also supported global internet freedom advocates to advance digital rights at the UN, and worked with activists and technologists to develop resources to help them campaign against, mitigate, and document internet shutdowns.

Jantine van Herwijnen
Jantine van Herwijnen is working for Free Press unlimited in the Gender, Safety and Accountabillity team.
Jantine has been living in the Middle-East for 5 years and her focus is on human rights, media development and safety &amp; security.

Jared Spool
Jared M. Spool is the founder of User Interface Engineering and a co-founder of Center Centre.


Jason Aul
Director of Communications &amp; Outreach
Jason graduated from Northwestern University with an MA in Public Administration and Public Policy, and from George Washington University with a BA in Political Science.

Jason Q. Ng
Jason is a digital activism instructor at Columbia SIPA and Yale University and author of Blocked on Weibo: What Gets Suppressed on China’s Version of Twitter.


 J. Ayo Akinyele
Dr. Joseph Ayo Akinyele is a Research Scientist at Zeutro, LLC.
 He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Johns Hopkins University in 2013. In 2007, he earned an M.S. in Software Engineering from Carnegie Mellon University. Subsequently, he worked at the JHU Applied Physics Laboratory as a software engineer, where he helped develop high assurance platforms for DoD sponsors utilizing trusted computing technology. He has also worked at the MIT Lincoln Laboratory where he helped implement real-time key management solutions for unmanned aerial vehicles.

J. Bob Alotta
Former Advisory Council
 for more information.

Jeffrey Knockel
As a Senior Information Controls Fellows, Jeffrey Knockel collaborated with the Citizen Lab to document censorship on popular applications in China and develop new methods for side channel network measurements.
.

Jennifer Henrichsen
Jennifer R. Henrichsen is a Visiting Fellow at Yale&#x27;s Information Society Project at Yale Law School and a Ph.D. candidate at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania.
Jennifer R. Henrichsen is a Visiting Fellow at Yale&#x27;s Information Society Project at Yale Law School and a Ph.D. candidate at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania. She examines how adversaries exploit weaknesses in the spread of information across organizations and institutions to contaminate the information ecosystem and to erode trust in knowledge systems. Specifically, she assesses how these and other challenges – from state and corporate surveillance to physical and digital attacks against the media – are creating an epistemic crisis for journalism. Her dissertation research examines journalistic intransigence to change – primarily through information security technologies – and what that means for journalism and its role in democracy. Henrichsen’s research has been published in top peer-reviewed journals, including Digital Journalism, Communication, Culture &amp; Critique, Media, War &amp; Conflict, and Media Theory. In 2019, she received a top student paper award from the journalism studies division of the International Communication Association for her paper &quot;Reconceptualizing Indigenous Journalism through Information Poverty Theory.” She twice has been a consultant to UNESCO where she produced global reports on the state of journalism and she has served as a consultant to the Knight Foundation, the MacArthur Foundation, and the Ford Foundation. She is currently on the Advisory Council for the Open Technology Fund and on the Steering Committee for the Center for Media at Risk at Annenberg. Henrichsen has written articles about journalism and information security for Columbia Journalism Review and Poynter and she was previously an independent journalist and a political correspondent. Henrichsen has received fellowships from Yale, Columbia University, the Knight Foundation and First Look Media. A Fulbright Research Scholar, Jennifer holds MA degrees from the University of Geneva and the University of Pennsylvania. In 2011, she co-wrote the book, War on Words: Who Should Protect Journalists? (Praeger) and in 2017 she co-edited the book, Journalism After Snowden: The Future of the Free Press in a Surveillance State (Columbia University Press). She is currently co-editing the book, National Security, Journalism and Law in the Age of Information Warfare, which is forthcoming with Oxford University Press.

Jillian C. York
Jillian C. York is a writer and activist whose work examines the impact of technology on our societal and cultural values.
Based in Berlin, she is the Director for International Freedom of Expression at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a fellow at the Center for Internet &amp; Human Rights at the European University Viadrina, and a visiting professor at the College of Europe Natolin. She is also the author of Silicon Values: The Future of Free Speech Under Surveillance Capitalism (Verso, 2021).

Joana Varon Ferraz
Joana Varon Ferraz is a consultant and independent researcher on Internet Governance and Digital Rights.
 Previously, Joana was a researcher and project coordinator at the Centre for Technology and Society from Fundação Getulio Vargas in Rio de Janeiro. While there, she worked on applied research on information and communication technology for development. Joana is a lawyer and holds a bachelor’s degree in international relations and a master’s degree in law and development. She is concerned about how the lack of true Internet freedom impacts human rights, innovation and, ultimately, development. As these are political questions, Joana has recently been searching for news tools to engage users on Internet policies, mixing both film activism and new technologies.

Joey Shea
Joey investigated digital surveillance and censorship in Egypt. She documented network interference during the 2019 Egyptian constitutional referendum and also monitored arrests based on digital expression.
) unpacking Egypt’s multifaceted regime of information controls.

John Adams
John Adams is an independent security advisor, focusing on information security, user privacy, and secure distributed systems.
As one of the earliest engineers at Twitter, he spent the last seven years building Twitter’s Information Security team and ensuring secure operations at scale. He now advises and assists early-stage companies (and non-profits) in developing solid information security programs that protect their users. He is a contributing author to Web Operations (O’Reilly) and as a frequent public speaker has given many talks on security and reliability at scale at conferences such as RSA, Velocity, Web 2.0, Usenix LISA, and Black Hat.

Jorge Sebastian Sierra Guerrero
Digital Integrity Fellow
As a Digital Integrity Fellow, he will work to improve the cybersecurity posture of the Mexico Border Investigative Reporting Hub, a network of Mexican border journalists and independent media organizations who are doing investigative reporting on corruption and human rights issues under challenging circumstances in seven border Mexican states. This region is one of the most dangerous zones for journalists in the world.

Joseph Bonneau
Joseph Bonneau is a Secure Usability Fellow working at both the Electronic Frontier Foundation and Stanford.
 The main goals of his fellowship are to improve the state of the art of secure messaging with user-centered cryptographic architectures. In particular, on the EFF side he is working on improving the EFF’s Secure Messaging Scorecard and starting next steps of the Campaign for Secure and Usable Crypto. At Stanford he is doing technical work on the CONIKS project to build user-verifiable public key directories for secure messaging tools.

Juliana Guerra
Tech &amp; Governance Advocacy Coordinator at Derechos Digitales
She works as Tech &amp; Governance Advocacy Coordinator at Derechos Digitales, one of the leading digital rights organizations in Latin America, whose work combines public policy advocacy, legal research, technology analysis, and campaigning, using communication tools aimed at policymakers, private companies, and the public.

Karen Renaud
Karen leads the Security Science Cluster and coordinate the Human-Centred Security Research Group.
She is interested in the interplay between users and security in the context of societal and industrial use. Karen wants to work towards creating a natural easy yet secure interaction between humans and devices. Her work has a strong development, experimental and deployment focus, testing solutions in practical situations. She has come up with a number of novel solutions to improve usability in a wide range of situations. Karen has also done fundamental work in understanding people’s mental models of security in a variety of applications and contexts.

Katharine Jarmul
Katharine Jarmul is Head of Product at Cape Privacy, an encrypted machine learning platform.
She is a passionate and internationally recognized data scientist, programmer, and lecturer. Previously, she held numerous roles at large companies and startups in the US and Germany, implementing data processing and machine learning systems with a focus on reliability, testability, privacy and security.

Katherine Maher
Katherine Maher is the Interim Executive Director at the Wikimedia Foundation.
 Previously, Maher was the director of Strategy and Engagement for Access, worked with the World Bank to launch the Open Development Technology Alliance, acted as Program Officer for Internet Freedom projects at the National Democratic Institute, and was a founding member of the UNICEF Innovation team. She is a fellow with the Truman National Security Project, where she received the organization’s inaugural Democracy and Human Rights Initiative Research Fellowship and a member of their Cybersecurity and Middle East working groups. Her writing has appeared in Foreign Policy, The Atlantic, and the Guardian, among others.

Kathrin Elmenhorst
Kathrin Elmenhorst is an Information Controls Fellow working with the Open Observatory of Network Interference (OONI) to investigate HTTP3 censorship.
As QUIC usage has increased since its introduction, it has become the target of censorship efforts. Monitoring developments in QUIC censorship since its launch has enabled the anti-censorship community to develop appropriate censorship evasion tools as early as possible. Beyond that, the measurements provide unique insights into how censorship systems are maintained and adapted to change.

Kat Krol
Kat Krol is a Secure Usability Senior Fellow.
 During her fellowship, she will be focusing on tools for secure instant messaging looking at their usability and adoption. There is so much technically excellent encryption software out there, that has not been widely adopted due to poor usability and/or a mismatch between what the technology offers and what the users need. Her first steps will be conducting focus groups with users of selected messaging apps to learn about their perspective.

Kavita Philip
Kavita Philip is Associate Professor of History with affiliate faculty positions in Anthropology and Informatics at the University of California, Irvine.
 She has a M.S. in Physics (University of Iowa) and a Ph.D. in Science and Technology Studies (Cornell University), with a specialization in the History of Science in South Asia. Her research interests are in transnational histories of science and technology; feminist technocultures; gender, race, globalization and postcolonialism; environmental history; and new media theory.

Kris Ruijgrok
As a Senior Information Controls Fellow, Kris worked with the SFLC.in to investigate the politics behind internet shutdowns in India.
Prior to this fellowship, Kris worked as a researcher in the project “Authoritarianism in a Global Age” at the University of Amsterdam.

Ksenia Ermoshina
As a Senior Information Controls Fellow, Ksenia worked at Citizen Lab to investigate information operations (censorship, shutdowns, targeted surveillance) in the context of armed conflicts and post-annexation in the former soviet-union region, namely Ukraine and Russia.
.”

Laura Cunningham
President
Previously, Laura worked as a Digital Coordinator at the Center for International Media Assistance at the National Endowment for Democracy, and helped to launch the Liberation Technology Program at Stanford University&#x27;s Center for Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law. Laura holds an M.A. in comparative politics and a B.A. in political science, with a minor in computer science, from Stanford University.

Lauren Turner, Esq., CIPP/US
General Counsel and Chief Operating Officer
Lauren is a Certified International Privacy Professional (U.S.) by the IAPP and is trained in workplace conflict resolution and mediation.

Leigh Honeywell
Leigh is the founder and CEO of Tall Poppy, where she helps organizations protect their employees from online harassment.
She was previously a Technology Fellow at the ACLU’s Project on Speech, Privacy, and Technology, and also worked at Slack, Salesforce.com, Microsoft, and Symantec. She has co-founded two hackerspaces, and advises several nonprofits and startups. Leigh has a Bachelors of Science from the University of Toronto where she majored in Computer Science and Equity Studies.

Libby Liu
Ms. Liu provided strategic and operational direction to OTF as it supported the development of global Internet freedom tools.
In addition to directing operational policies and procedures, she coordinated issues in these areas with the USAGM, the International Broadcasting Bureau, other associated entities, and outside stakeholders.

Lindsay Beck
Lindsay joined RFA in June 2014 as a program manager, actively engaged in OTF’s day-to-day operations.
Prior to joining OTF, Lindsay worked for the National Democratic Institute, focusing on how NDI and its partners can safeguard their data and communications in their projects to ensure government accountability as well as monitor elections and other political processes. Lindsay also worked for Freedom House’s Internet Freedom program, where she worked with human rights activists on efforts to counteract censorship and surveillance as well as strengthen Internet governance and policy. Lindsay received her Master’s degree, focusing on Technology in International Affairs, from the George Washington University.

Liz Pruszko Steininger
Liz joined RFA in April 2013.
 As senior program manager, she is actively engaged in OTF’s day-to-day operations and long-term planning.

Lorenzo Primiterra
As an accomplished mobile developer, Lorenzo worked with the Tor Project to develop a fully functional mobile app versions (Android and iOS) of the Open Observatory for Network Interference (OONI) testing platform in addition to adding new platform features such as OONI Run, a web based way to run an OONI test.
 the number of network interference tests being carried out globally.

Mahsa Alimardani
Mahsa Alimardani is an Internet researcher, looking at the intersection of technology and human rights, particularly in Iran.
She’s currently a doctoral student at University of Oxford’s Oxford Internet Institute, while acting as a senior Information Control Fellow for the Open Technology Fund. She has over six years of experience doing research and project work on freedom of expression and access to information online in Iran for various NGOs and organizations. She works with ARTICLE19 on their digital rights projects in Iran. Her fellowship project looked at the effect of information controls on user behavior in Iran, particular in their use of platforms using both qualitative and quantitative data.

Maina Korir
Maina is a Secure Usability Senior Fellow.
 Her fellowship consists of understanding user motivation and how it can better guide secure behavior, focusing specifically on e-mail. Her research will concentrate on these three questions: (i) To what extent does a lack of user motivation contribute to the low adoption and use of secure email?, (ii) How can we motivate users to adopt and use secure e-mail?, and (iii) How can motivation be integrated effectively into the design of secure e-mail? She will focus on the link between user motivation and adoption, and test the impact of motivational interventions. The output of her research will recommend how to increase the uptake of secure e-mail for the general population.

Mallory  Knodel
Mallory is a writer, community organiser and researcher.
She is the Chief Technology Officer at the Center for Democracy and Technology in Washington DC and she chairs the Human Rights Protocol Considerations Research Group of the Internet Research Task Force. She is a public interest technologist who advises organisations, companies and governments on issues related to intersectional feminism, social justice and human rights in tech.

Marcin de Kaminski
Marcin de Kaminski was a Policy Specialist at the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida), with a specific focus on ICT and digital development.
He coordinated large parts of Sida’s efforts within the digital sector, including accessibility issues, technology, and innovation. Marcin was also part of the team at Sida organizing the Stockholm Internet Forum, which gathered 500 participants from 90 countries in May 2017 to discuss issues of internet freedom technology, governance, and related issues. He has a background as an internet researcher and has previously been involved in various projects related to social innovation and entrepreneurship.

Marcus Michaelsen
As a Senior Information Controls Fellow, Marcus worked with Hivos to investigate digital threats against diaspora activists from Egypt, Iran and Syria.
Prior to this fellowship, Marcus worked as a researcher in the project “Authoritarianism in a Global Age” at the University of Amsterdam.

Marios Isaakidis
Circumventing censorship with biton
 summarizing the outcomes of the project.

Matthew Green
Matthew is an Assistant Professor at the Johns Hopkins Information Security Institute.
 His research includes techniques for privacy-enhanced information storage, anonymous payment systems, and bilinear map-based cryptography. Matthew was formerly a partner in Independent Security Evaluators, a custom security evaluation and design consultancy and I currently consult independently. From 1999-2003, I served as a senior technical staff member at AT&amp;T Laboratories/Research in Florham Park, NJ.

Matt Mitchell
Matt is a security researcher, operational security trainer, and data journalist who leads CryptoHarlem, impromptu workshops teaching basic cryptography tools to the predominately African American community in upper Manhattan.
Previously, he worked as a data journalist for The New York Times and as a developer for CNN, Aol/Huffington Post, and other news organizations. Matt currently trains activists and journalists in digital security, with a special focus on marginalized populations who are often aggressively monitored, over-policed, and disenfranchised. Now as a Mozilla-Ford Foundation Open Web Fellow, Matt is based at ColorOfChange pioneering tools and discovering compelling user engagement strategies.

Meredith Whittaker
Meredith Whittaker is the founder and lead of Google’s Open Research group, which is dedicated to solving hard problems in collaboration with the open source and academic communities.
 She and her group are currently focusing on open (verifiable!) Internet measurement and research, usable open-source privacy and security tools, open-source “critical infrastructure” and how to keep it healthy (i.e. how do we keep our promises when relying on countless upstream resources?), and the tetchy intersections of ethics and networked systems research – these things, other things, and the dynamic constellation of social and political issues that attend them. Meredith has a BA in Rhetoric from UC Berkeley, and learned most of what she does by doing it.

Michael Brennan
Michael Brennan works as at SecondMuse as a technologist and organizer for the global social impact technology projects Random Hacks of Kindness and The International Space Apps Challenge, among others.
 Previously, Michael worked as a technologist for the Division of Privacy and Identity Protection at the Federal Trade Commission. He received a PhD in the Computer Science Department at Drexel University in Philadelphia where his studied surround stylometry (authorship recognition) and its applications in artificial intelligence and security. Michael specifically looked at methods of attacking stylometric systems, the potential threat authorship recognition poses to privacy and anonymity, and the mitigation of these threat through such attacks.

Michael Collyer
Michael Collyer is a Senior Information Controls Fellow, working with the Oxford Internet Institute to research internet shutdowns.
The language surrounding internet shutdowns and how they fit into the broader field of information control warrants further research. Therefore, in order to better understand how to identify, classify and frame different types of shutdowns, Michael is writing a research paper exploring these specific elements. He will also create an innovative interactive database to centralize shutdown data and other relevant data such as protests. In addition, given the recent developments in computational methodologies, he will analyze shutdowns using an advanced data science method. These deliverables will cumulate in useful resources for those interested in understanding and/or researching shutdowns.

Michael Geist
Dr. Michael Geist is on the Information Controls Fellowship Program Advisory Council.
 He is a law professor at the University of Ottawa where he holds the Canada Research Chair in Internet and E-commerce Law. He has obtained a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) degree from Osgoode Hall Law School in Toronto, Master of Laws (LL.M.) degrees from Cambridge University in the UK and Columbia Law School in New York, and a Doctorate in Law (J.S.D.) from Columbia Law School. Dr. Geist is a syndicated columnist on technology law issues with his regular column appearing in the Toronto Star, the Hill Times, and the Tyee. Dr. Geist is the editor of several copyright books including The Copyright Pentalogy: How the Supreme Court of Canada Shook the Foundations of Canadian Copyright Law (2013, University of Ottawa Press), From “Radical Extremism” to “Balanced Copyright”: Canadian Copyright and the Digital Agenda (2010, Irwin Law) and In the Public Interest: The Future of Canadian Copyright Law (2005, Irwin Law), the editor of several monthly technology law publications, and the author of a popular blog on Internet and intellectual property law issues.

Michael Kempner
Board Member
.  Mr. Kempner received a B.S. from American University.

Mohamad Najem
Mohamad ​leads and assists in various campaigns throughout the Arab world, mainly around ​​digital rights.
As a trainer, speaker, and consultant for a diverse range of NGO’s and civil society groups in the Arab region, he has initiated and contributed to several successful online campaigns, such as #stopthislaw and Protect Privacy, and is currently focused on bringing together knowledgeable and progressive voices to push for sound Internet governance in the Arab region. He tweets as @MoNajem and blogs for SMEX and Global Voices Advocacy.

Mohamed Tita
Mohamed researched existing and potential circumvention techniques in Egypt
.

Mohammed Al-Maskati
Mohammed al-Maskati is a Bahraini human rights activist and digital security consultant working with Front Line Defenders in the Middle East and North Africa region.
He is the founder and former president of the Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights (BYSHR), a group that organizes training workshops, monitors and documents human rights violations and participates in forming a regional network for young human rights activists in eight Arab countries.

Mona Wang
Mona Wang is an ICFP fellow working with Citizen Lab to conduct an in-depth analysis of the WeChat application’s security and privacy practices.
During her fellowship, Mona will reverse-engineer WeChat’s custom transport-layer encryption protocol and provide tooling for other researchers to intercept and decrypt network traffic. She will use this tooling to perform an in-depth security and privacy review of the application, including analysis of popular MiniPrograms on the WeChat application ecosystem.

Moses Karanja
As a Seasonal Information Controls Fellow, Moses Karanja worked with the [Centre for Intellectual Property and Information Technology Law at Strathmore University to compare the nature, form, and threats in Internet freedom from national security agencies in South Sudan, Ethiopia, and Kenya.
.

Moxie Marlinspike
Moxie Marlinspike has worked as a software engineer, hacker, sailor, captain, and shipwright.
 Moxie is currently a fellow at the Institute For Disruptive Studies, running a cloud-based password cracking service, and a co-founder of Whisper Systems. He focuses computer security, particularly areas around secure protocols, cryptography, privacy, and anonymity.

Nadia Eghbal
Nadia Eghbal explores how we can better support open source infrastructure, highlighting current gaps in funding and knowledge.
 Her work is supported by the Ford Foundation. Nadia is a former founder and VC based in San Francisco. In a previous life, she worked in nonprofits and impact investing.

Nadia Heninger
Nadia Heninger is an assistant professor in the Computer and Information Science department at the University of Pennsylvania.
 Her research focuses on security, applied cryptography, and algorithms. She is best known for her work identifying widespread entropy problems in cryptographic keys, and developing the “cold boot” attack against disk encryption systems. She has a Ph.D. in computer science from Princeton and a B.S. in electrical engineering and computer science from UC Berkeley, and had postdoctoral positions at UC San Diego and Microsoft Research New England.

Natasha Msonza
Natasha Msonza is a digital security trainer and privacy advocate based in Zimbabwe.
 She is co-founder of the Digital Society of Zimbabwe, a voluntary network of technologists advocates working to empower Zimbabwean human rights defenders and everyday Internet users to become more resilient and secure in their use of digital tools online and offline. Natasha works primarily at the intersections of gender, information technology and human rights and spends her time managing operations in various technology projects including Mobile Community Zimbabwe and Her Zimbabwe. She holds a Bachelor of Science in Media from MSU and a Master of Science Degree in Human Development Studies from NUST. As a fellow, Natasha will implement a digital security roadmap with five selected Zimbabwean HRD organizations. Among other things, she will undertake individual organizational assessments and based on findings, help establish practical digital security policies and provide requisite technical support. She will also attempt to apply tried and tested behavior change and andragogical strategies to influence retention of secure habits.

Nathalie Maréchal
As a senior fellow, Nathalie Maréchal helped expand the Corporate Accountability Index to include software and devices in 2016 through testing potential indicators and adapting the current methodology.
, increased outreach and support to other researchers and organizations interested in employing the RDR methodology, and authored several scholarly publications on the impact of private sector policies on free expression and privacy online. She is a doctoral candidate in Communication at the University of Southern California’s Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism. She first joined the RDR team as a COMPASS Fellow in 2014, and conducted company research for the 2015 Corporate Accountability Index.

Nat Kretchun
Senior Vice President for Programs
Nat joined the OTF team in 2017. As Senior Vice President for Programs, Nat oversees OTF’s programmatic portfolio.

Neil Blazevic
Digital Integrity Fellow
. He holds an MA in International Development Studies from York University as well as CompTIA S+, ITIL Foundation, PMI-ACP certifications and is studying for his CISSP. Ping him to talk about tech, books, meditation, parenting, running, and life! Occasional tweets from @neilblazevic.

Nicolas Sera-Leyva
Nicolas leads community management at the Center for Digital Resilience, where he grows and supports vibrant communities of human rights defenders by facilitating trust-building, knowledge sharing, and strategic collaboration.
); steered community outreach and engagement for the Internet Freedom Festival; and oversaw research, training and advocacy initiatives as Director of Program Operations at SMEX, the leading digital rights NGO in the Middle East and North Africa.

Niels ten Oever
Communications Infrastructure Researcher at the University of Amsterdam.
Niels is a postdoctoral communications infrastructure researcher at the University of Amsterdam with a particular interest in the relations between networks, power, and human rights.

Nighat Dad
Nighat Dad is the Executive Director of Digital Rights Foundation, Pakistan.
 She is an accomplished lawyer and a human rights activist. Nighat Dad is one of the pioneers who have been campaigning around access to open internet in Pakistan and globally. She has been actively campaigning and engaging at a policy level on issues focusing on Internet Freedom, Women and technology, Digital Security and Women’s empowerment. For her fellowship, Nighat will be conducting digital safety trainings to educate human rights activists and journalists around the country on how to secure their online presence, safe storage of information, communications security and tactics for prevention of cyber-harassment and to avoid digital surveillance.

Norman  Shamas
Advisory Council
 for more information.

Oriana H
Digital Integrity Fellow
Oriana&#x27;s fellowship project seeks to develop the digital security capabilities of Venezuelan human rights organizations that work in border areas through a multi-stage accompaniment program that ranges from risk assessment to the development of organizational security policies.

Paola Villarreal
Former Advisory Council
 for more information.

Pellaeon Lin
As an Information Controls Fellow, Pellaeon conducted a security, privacy and censorship audit of TikTok, a short-video sharing social media app popular among young internet users.
.

Pepe Borrás
Pepe Borrás is the co-founder and executive director of the Internet Freedom Festival (IFF)
Pepe Borrás is the co-founder and executive director of the Internet Freedom Festival (IFF), one of the most diverse conferences in Internet Freedom field, regarded for its pioneering community-focused approach. Prior to the IFF, Borrás founded Workether, one of the first technology-focused coworking spaces in Spain, and he has lead projects in the USA, UK, Sweden, and Spain. With a background in film, advertising and design, he is passionate about the use of technology for the promotion of human rights, and has launched innovative advocacy projects such as &quot;Listen to Help” — the world’s first global fundraising campaign on Spotify—, and &quot;Meanwhile in Brazil&quot; — a visual newsfeed contrasting daily on-pitch action with protests in the streets during the 2014 Soccer World Cup. Borrás is an alumnus of Hyper Island, the world-renowned Swedish school for the new era creatives, and was selected for the prestigious BBH Barn, the talent-scouting program of the international advertising agency BBH.

Peter Eckersley
Peter Eckersley is Technology Projects Director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
 He keeps his eyes peeled for technologies that, by accident or design, pose a risk to computer users’ freedoms—and then looks for ways to fix them. He explains gadgets to lawyers, and lawyers to gadgets. Peter’s work at EFF has included privacy and security projects such as Panopticlick, HTTPS Everywhere, SSDI, and the SSL Observatory; helping to launch a movement for open wireless networks; fighting to keep modern computing platforms open; and running the first controlled tests to confirm that Comcast was using forged reset packets to interfere with P2P protocols.

Philipp Winter
Philipp Winter is on the Information Controls Fellowship Program Advisory Council.
Philipp does research and development on computer networking, security, and privacy. When not working on free software, he enjoys making research more accessible to the general public.

Phyu Phyu Kyaw
This Fellow looked into the Myanmar government and the military&#x27;s surveillance and censorship capacity


Poncelet Ileleji
Poncelet O. Ileleji is a computer Scientist by Profession with 21 years in the field; he has been involved with the use of ICT as a tool for sustainable development both as a lecturer, researcher and consultant for the Gambia YMCAs, where he is the coordinator of the computer training centre and digital studio.
He has also served as consultant for several projects in Africa covering ICT for D, Learning, Technologies and Education, Internet Governance and Health Informatics. He Is a member of the British Computer Society, and also a fellow of Mirandanet (www.mirandanet.ac.uk) and an active member of the Association for Progressive Communication (APC). He is a founding member of the Information Technology Association of the Gambia and was elected president of the Association in March 2010 is term ended in April 2014 (www.itag.gm). Poncelet’s Fellowship work focuses on empowering media practitioners, civil society activist and youths on digital security in the Gambia. His methodology approach centres on a participatory learning capacity building training programs that also look into all current and past issues on digital security globally and relating it within is own community context.

Ramakrishnan Sundara Raman
Ram’s OTF Fellowship at the Citizen Lab aims to develop a set of techniques and fingerprints to identify devices performing censorship, and measure their deployment in different countries.
, an award focused on recent results in applied networking research and on interesting new research of potential relevance to the Internet standards community. The award focuses on cases where the researchers and their work might not otherwise get heavy exposure. Winners of the award are given the opportunity to present their work with the engineers, network operators, policy makers, and scientists who participate in the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and the Internet Research Task Force (IRTF).

Ramy Raoof
Technologist
 65D5 D4B1 07A4 B83F B1FC 9BAE 2EAB 874E 20D7 85CD

Rima Sghaier
As a DIFP fellow, Rima will work to improve the digital security skills of at-risk communities in the MENA region.
Working with the Hermes Center For Transparency and Digital Human Rights for a 12-month research fellowship, Rima will focus on auditing and improving the digital security skills of at-risk communities in MENA, including independent journalists/media, bloggers, religious minorities, civil society/political activists, sexual minorities and human rights NGOs/HRDs, for what relates to their first contact and community-building methods.

Rishab Nithyanand
As a Senior Emerging Technology Fellow, Rishab worked to allow Tor clients to route around ISP and state-level surveillance bodies by focusing on AS level adversaries and designing potential solutions.
 video games as a covert channel.

Roya Ensafi
Roya Ensafi is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Michigan
Roya Ensafi is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Michigan, where her research focuses on computer networking, security, and privacy. She designs scalable techniques and systems to protect users’ Internet connections from disruption and surveillance. Roya is best known for her work in the area of Internet censorship, where she pioneered the use of side-channels to remotely measure adversarial manipulation of Internet traffic. She founded CensoredPlanet a global censorship observatory that continuously monitors various types of network interference in over 170 countries since August 2018. Her notable projects with real-world impact include researching and documenting the Kazakhstan HTTPS MitM interception, the Great Cannon of China, and large-scale study of server-side geoblocking. She has received the NSF CISE Research Initiation Initiative award and the Google Faculty Research Award. Prior to joining Michigan, she was a postdoc at Princeton University’s Center for Information Technology Policy (CITP). Roya is on the Information Controls Fellowship Program Advisory Council.

Ruba Abu-Salma
Ruba Abu-Salma is a Ph.D.
 student in the Department of Computer Science at University College London (UCL) in the UK, supervised by Prof. M. Angela Sasse and Dr. Sarah Meiklejohn. All three are members of the Information Security Research Group. Ruba’s research focuses on taking a user-centered approach to the design and use of secure communications. Ruba is currently supported by a SUDS (Supporting Usability and Design in Security) Fellowship from the Open Technology Fund. During her fellowship, Ruba will work towards creating foundational knowledge for the design of communication tools that support secure group chat in line with users’ needs, mental models, perceptions and computer security practices.

Sandra Ordóñez
Sandra is loves helping grow, diversify and cultivate the Internet Freedom Community.
Sandra is the Co-founder and Strategic Advisor for the Internet Freedom Festival and was OTF&#x27;s inaugural Director of Community and Outreach. While at OTF, she lead the creation of our Community Lab, co-found the Internet Freedom Festival, and helped grow and diversify the global Internet Freedom Community. Before her time at OTF, Sandra was Head of Communications and Outreach at OpenITP where she supported the community behind FLOSS anti-surveillance and anti-censorship tools. In this role, she helped kick off Techno-Activism 3rd Monday and the Circumvention Tech Festival. She is also served as the first director of communications for the Wikimedia Foundation. Previous to entering FLOSS, she conducted over 400 expert interviews on the future of journalism, and has provided community management and digital strategy consultation to numerous organizations throughout the years. Sandra is a recipient of the Hispanic Leadership Award by the Fundacion Carolina, and is passionate about the improving diversity in technology.

Sandy Fulton
Program Manager
Prior to joining OTF, Sandy coordinated Free Press’ legislative outreach and lobbying efforts, focusing specifically on the First Amendment and racial justice implications of Net Neutrality, minority media ownership, government surveillance, and privacy issues. Before joining Free Press, Sandy served as a legislative assistant at the American Civil Liberties Union’s Washington office, where she focused on First Amendment and national security issues, including free speech, reining in government spying programs, and updating electronic privacy laws. Sandy earned a degree in political science from the University of Maryland.

Sanne Stevens
Sanne Stevens is co-director of the Justice, Equity and Technology Table at the London School of Economics.
This collaborative network addresses the impacts of data-driven policing on racialized communities throughout Europe. The network brings together community organizers invested in anti-racism, non-discrimination and those seeking to address the detrimental effect of technologies on issues of social justice, to expose and confront the harms of new forms of surveillance and control on the ground. Sanne is a trained facilitator and advisor with many years of experience working with civil society and media organizations in the field of technology, digital safety and Internet freedom. Her interests are the power and politics of data-driven technologies, demystification of tech and strategies of resistance. She lives in Amsterdam where she is involved with organizing and the diy music community. 

Sarah Aoun
Vice President of Security


Serene Han
As a Senior Information Controls Fellow, Serene collaborated with University of Berkeley’s International Computer Science Institute to advance the Snowflake pluggable transport through increased development and deployment.
 in the Tor Browser.

Sergei Hovyadinov
As a senior fellow, Sergei Hovyadinov worked with the Ranking Digital Rights Project at the Open Technology Institute to provide an in-depth analysis of the role of internet intermediaries in the execution of Russian state controls over the internet and how these companies adjust their operations and transparency practices in autocratic regimes like Russia.
Sergei is a doctoral candidate at Stanford Law School. His research focuses on the evolution of state control over the Internet in Russia. In his most recent job at Google he managed legal affairs of the company in Russia and Eastern Europe. Before that, he was a legal counsel at Intel in Russia and the UK. He holds a JSM (Stanford Law School); an LL.M (McGeorge School of Law), and an LLB in Law (Odessa State University).

Shinyoung Cho
As an Information Controls Fellow, Shinyoung worked with the University of Massachusetts-Amherst to study and improve the hegemony of the Tor network.
The Tor network relies on volunteers to run relays in order for it to operate. If a large percentage of relays are operating on the same network, network-level adversaries can correlate the traffic of Tor users - jeopardizing their anonymity. While the number of Tor relays in the Tor network has grown to nearly 285% over the last 10 years, the number of Autonomous Systems (AS) in the network has increased at a much slower rate. The applicant worked with UMass-Amherst to quantify which ASes are most relied on when entering and exiting the Tor network - informing the design and development of a secure exit selection algorithm that aims to minimize the probability of attacks. Shinyoung also worked with the Tor Project to explore integration.

Shivan Kaul Sahib
Privacy Engineer at Brave Software
Shivan is a privacy engineer currently working at Brave Software on shipping novel research to millions of people. He co-chairs groups in the IETF focused around privacy-enhancing network protocols and research, and previously worked on DNS traffic encryption and consent tooling at Salesforce. He has a keen interest in public interest technology and frequently engages with civil society.

Simone Basso
Simone worked with Measurement Lab at the Open Technology Institute to advance the MeasurementKit platform.


Stefania Milan
Stefania Milan is an Associate Professor of New Media and Digital Culture at the University of Amsterdam
), both funded by the European Research Council. In 2017, she co-founded the Big Data from the South Research Initiative, investigating the impact of datafication and surveillance on communities at the margins. Prior to joining the University of Amsterdam, she worked at, among others, the Citizen Lab at the University of Toronto and the Central European University. Outside office hours, she enjoys cycling, boxing and mountaineering.

Stephane Labarthe
After working during 12 years in France in IT security and privacy area - Stephane’s last experience was in the French Data Protection Authority (CNIL) as IT auditor and digital security Manager.
In Colombia, Stephane began work with Karisma Foundation, an NGO working for human rights in Internet and IT. Stephane began to work for them as a privacy and digital security expert, strengthening their technical work and creating a privacy and digital security Lab in the foundation. The Lab is also working in analyzing governmental websites, smartphones Apps or RFID chips in a Do-It-Yourself and Open perspective (We are going to publish methodology and tools). Through his fellowship work, Stephane is now helping with digital security auditing and assistance of Colombian journalists, human rights defenders and other at-risk groups seeking assistance.

Stephane Labarthe
After working during 12 years in France in IT security and privacy area - Stephane’s last experience was in the French Data Protection Authority (CNIL) as IT auditor and digital security Manager.
In Colombia, Stephane began work with Karisma Foundation, an NGO working for human rights in Internet and IT. Stephane began to work for them as a privacy and digital security expert, strengthening their technical work and creating a privacy and digital security Lab in the foundation. The Lab is also working in analyzing governmental websites, smartphones Apps or RFID chips in a Do-It-Yourself and Open perspective (We are going to publish methodology and tools). Through his fellowship work, Stephane is now helping with digital security auditing and assistance of Colombian journalists, human rights defenders and other at-risk groups seeking assistance.

Stevan Youssef
Operations Specialist
Prior to joining OTF, Stevan worked in legislative politics with a particular focus on labor rights issues. As an Operations Specialist, Stevan is responsible for several compliance and finance processes and assists on special projects where appropriate. 

Susan Farrell
As UX Research and Strategy at All Turtles, Susan collaborates with early-stage AI product teams to to build great user experiences.
Susan Farrell is a member of User Experience Professionals Association (UXPA) and ACM Computer Human Interaction (CHI). She also serves on the Advisory Council for the UTEST community.

Susan McGregor
Susan McGregor is Assistant Director of the Tow Center for Digital Journalism &amp;amp; Assistant Professor at Columbia Journalism School, where she helps supervise the dual-degree program in Journalism &amp;amp; Computer Science.
She teaches primarily in areas of data journalism &amp; information visualization, with a research interests in digital security, knowledge management and alternative forms of digital distribution. McGregor was the Senior Programmer on the News Graphics team at the Wall Street Journal Online for four years before joining Columbia Journalism School in 2011. McGregor was named a 2010 Gerald Loeb Award winner for her work on the the WSJ’s “What They Know” series, and a finalist for the Scripps Howard Foundation National Journalism Awards for Web Reporting in 2007.

Sylvia Kanari
Sylvia worked with East and Horn of Africa Human Rights Defenders Network.


Sylvia Kanari
Sylvia worked with East and Horn of Africa Human Rights Defenders Network.


Taha Khan
Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) are commercial services which play a key role in Internet freedom.
 and created a website based on empirical evidence, which can be accessed by global users to understand the specifics of VPN services and aid them in making a more informed choice when selecting amongst available VPN services.

Tanya O&#x27;Carroll 
Tanya has led the development of Amnesty International’s strategy on technology and human rights for the past three years.
